presented by an abbess to her coven of
nuns a medieval tomb known as the
Lisburn gospel book is one of the most
valuable gospels on the planet only five
copies with rare first pages are known
to exist and now one has revealed an
extra hidden treasure a mysterious hand
drawing prayer wheel inside but despite
the unusual find it is not known how to
use the ignominy
design the mysterious prayer wheel was
likely added to the books first blank
page in the 12th century the tomb was
primarily used for display and
oath-taking and was considered to be
sacred and the physical embodiment of
the Word of God written in Latin and
arranged in concentric circles the
prayer wheels outermost ring contains
instructions and when translated from
medieval Latin it reads the order of the
diagram written here teaches the return
of home the next circle entitled 7
petitions contains 7 quotations from the
Lord's Prayer alongs its folks including
daily bread and kingdom come the third
circle from the outside reads gifts of
the Holy Spirit and includes the words
wisdom and council written in a mixture
of black and red ink written in red
these gifts are mixed with seven events
in the life of Jesus such as his baptism
and passion day of judgment which are
shown in black around the center of the
wheel which reads Dias or God are the
seven groups of people blessed in
Jesus's but roots for example the meek
and poor of spirit with their rewards
such as inherit the earth and Kingdom of
Heaven listed opposite the diagram is an
early example of its kind which is known
in five other manuscripts the earliest
of which is an 11th century work from
southwestern Germany
while the contents of the wheel may be
familiar to modern Christians how it was
used
perhaps by medieval nuns is a mystery
Lauren Mencia an expert at Brooklyn
College who has studied the Lisburn
wheel said that monks and nuns in
Central Middle Ages had a bad reputation
for learning prayers and mumble them
without thinking but this diagram
suggests that they were not just
mumbling they were using a mnemonic
device to remember or and initialize or
even to make an inner journey it
resembles diagrams used by religious
people to organize their thoughts
centuries later
or may even look like a magical
incarnation to some it appears as if the
wheel can be used in two main ways
so that a reader could think about the
words in each concentric circle working
towards the middle or following each
spoke of the wheel to focus their
prayers it is not known whether the
diagram was used to teach people or was
private aid for meditation or whether it
was an exercise designed to be repeated
again and again
you